---
layout: page
title: Current Research
navlevel: header
navtitle: Research
position: 2
---

### International emigrant selection on occupational skills
(Jointly with Jens Ruhose, Simon Wiederhold, and Miguel Flores)

We present the first evidence on the role of occupational choices and acquired
skills for migrant selection. Combining novel data from a representative Mexican
task survey with rich individual-level worker data, we find that Mexican
migrants to the United States have higher manual skills and lower cognitive
skills than non-migrants. Results hold within narrowly defined
region-industry-occupation cells and for all education levels. Consistent with a
Roy/Borjas-type selection model, differential returns to occupational skills
between the United States and Mexico explain the selection pattern. Occupational
skills are more important to capture the economic motives for migration than
previously used worker characteristics. (*JEL* F22, O15, J61, J24)
[[DOI]](https://doi.org/10.1093/jeea/jvaa032)

---


### Learning by Problem-Solving

(Jointly with Peer Ederer and Ljubica Nedelkoska)

The standard Mincer model does not account for large differences in earnings
across occupations.  We present an alternative learning-by-doing model that
relates wages and skill development to the level of job complexity of a worker.
Using administrative data on German labour market entrants, we find that wage
growth is positively related to job complexity and negatively related to the
initial level of skill.  We calibrate the model and show that workers in highly
complex occupations acquire twice as much human capital throughout life compared
to workers in simple occupations.  The results suggest that learning-by-doing is
a far more important earnings determinant than investment in education and
training that have been the focus of the literature.  (*JEL* J24, J31, D83)
[[SSRN]](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fpapers.ssrn.com%2Fabstract%3D2673990&sa=D)
